[develop] Make `get_obs` tasks day-dependent in workflow; other improvements and bug fixes (#1137)
ufs-community/ufs-srweather-app: doc/UsersGuide/BuildingRunningTesting/RunSRW.rst

relative to the obs type's ``*_OBS_DIR``.  Thus, the templates for the full paths to the obs files are
given by

.. code-block:: console

   {*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}

If the obs files exist at the locations specified by ``{*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}``, then the ``get_obs_*`` tasks will
succeed, and the workflow will move on to subsequent tasks.  If one or more obs files do not exist, the
``get_obs_*`` tasks will attempt to retrieve the required files from a data store such as NOAA HPSS and
place them in the locations specified by ``{*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}``.  Assuming
that attempt is successful, the workflow will move on to subsequent tasks.  Thus:

   * Users who have the obs files already available (staged) on their system only need to set ``*_OBS_DIR``
     and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` in ``config.yaml`` to match those staging locations and file names.  
   
   * Users who do not have the obs files available on their systems and do not have access to NOAA HPSS
     need to download :term:`CCPA`, :term:`NOHRSC`, :term:`MRMS`, and/or :term:`NDAS` files manually

>      from collections of publicly available data such as the ones listed `here <https://dtcenter.org/nwp-containers-online-tutorial/publicly-available-data-sets>`__. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     from collections of publicly available data. 
```

       and ensemble VX.
   * - ``verify_det.yaml``
     - Defines (meta)tasks that perform deterministic VX on a single forecast or on each member of an ensemble
       forecast (the latter requires ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` and ``NUM_ENS_MEMBERS`` in ``config.yaml`` to be set to
       ``True`` and the number of ensemble members, respectively).
   * - ``verify_ens.yaml``
     - Defines (meta)tasks that perform ensemble VX on an ensemble of forecasts as a whole (requires ``DO_ENSEMBLE``
       and ``NUM_ENS_MEMBERS`` in ``config.yaml`` to be set to ``True`` and the number of ensemble members,
       respectively).

For example, to enable deterministic VX, ``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:`` may be set as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   rocoto:
     tasks:
       taskgroups: '{{ ["parm/wflow/prep.yaml", "parm/wflow/coldstart.yaml", "parm/wflow/post.yaml",
                        "parm/wflow/verify_pre.yaml", "parm/wflow/verify_det.yaml"]|include }}'

This setting can apply to either a deterministic or an ensemble forecast.  In the latter case, it will
cause deterministic VX will be performed on each member of the ensemble (but not on the ensemble as a

> whole).  Note that with this setting, the weather model will be run as part of the workflow to generate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
whole).  Note that with this setting, the UFS Weather Model will be run as part of the workflow to generate
```

forecast output because ``prep.yaml``, ``coldstart.yaml``, and ``post.yaml`` are also included in
``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:``.  Whether these forecasts are deterministic or ensemble depends on
whether ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` in ``config.yaml`` is set to ``False`` or ``True``, respectively (and, if
``True``, ``NUM_ENS_MEMBERS`` must be set to the number of ensemble members).  Similarly, to enable
ensemble VX for an ensemble forecast as well as deterministic VX for each member of that ensemble,
``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:`` may be set as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   rocoto:
     tasks:
       taskgroups: '{{ ["parm/wflow/prep.yaml", "parm/wflow/coldstart.yaml", "parm/wflow/post.yaml",
                        "parm/wflow/verify_pre.yaml", "parm/wflow/verify_det.yaml" "parm/wflow/verify_ens.yaml"]|include }}'

If deterministic VX of each ensemble member is not desired, ``verify_det.yaml`` must be left out of the
above.  Note that, as in the previous example, this setting of  ``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:`` will cause

> the workflow to run the weather model to generate forecast output because ``prep.yaml``, ``coldstart.yaml``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the workflow to run the UFS Weather Model to generate forecast output because ``prep.yaml``, ``coldstart.yaml``,
```

that the forecast be an ensemble one.

If users want to manually stage the forecast files instead of generating them with the SRW's native weather
model (see :numref:`Section %s <VXStageFcstFiles>` for the procedure), they must exclude ``prep.yaml``,
``coldstart.yaml``, and ``post.yaml`` from the examples above.  Also, regardless of whether the forecast
files are generated by the SRW App or staged manually by the user, if the forecast to be verified is an
ensemble one, in the ``global:`` section of ``config.yaml`` users must set ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` to ``True``
and ``NUM_ENS_MEMBERS`` to the number of ensemble members.  This tells the workflow to look for multiple
forecasts for each cycle instead of just one (as well as the number of such forecasts).

More information about configuring the ``rocoto:`` section can be found in :numref:`Section %s <DefineWorkflow>`.

VX Taskgroup Organization and VX Field Groups
`````````````````````````````````````````````````
The VX (meta)tasks in the ``verify_*.yaml`` taskgroup files are described in detail in :numref:`Table %s
<VXWorkflowTasksTable>`.  They are organized as follows.

The (meta)tasks in ``verify_pre.yaml`` each

> operate on a single obs type (except for ``metatask_check_post_output_all_mems``, which operates on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operate on a single observation (obs) type (except for ``metatask_check_post_output_all_mems``, which operates on the
```

call to one of the METplus tools (such as GridStat, PointStat, GenEnsProd, and EnsembleStat), and each
field group has associated with it an obs type against which those forecast fields are verified.  The
set of valid VX field groups, the obs types they are associated with, and a brief description of the
fields they include are given in :numref:`Table %s <VXFieldGroupDescsTable>`. 

.. _VXFieldGroupDescsTable:

.. list-table:: Valid Verification Field Groups and Descriptions
   :widths: 20 20 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - VX Field Group
     - Associated Obs Type
     - Fields Included in Group
   * - APCP
     - CCPA
     - Accumulated precipitation for the accumulation intervals specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``
   * - ASNOW
     - NOHRSC
     - Accumulated snowfall for the accumulation intervals specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``
   * - REFC 
     - MRMS
     - Composite reflectivity
   * - RETOP 
     - MRMS
     - Echo top
   * - SFC
     - NDAS
     - Various surface and near-surface fields (e.g. at the surface, 2 m, 10 m, etc)
   * - UPA
     - NDAS
     - Various upper-air fields (e.g. at 800 mb, 500 mb, etc)

> The list ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS`` in the ``verification:`` section of ``config.yaml`` specifies the VX field
> groups for which to run verification.  Thus, inclusion of a ``verify_*.yaml`` taskgroup file under the
> ``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:`` section of ``config.yaml`` does not mean that all the (meta)tasks in that
> file will necessarily be included in the workflow.  This is because, in order to avoid unwanted computation,
> only those (meta)tasks in ``verify_det.yaml`` and/or ``verify_ens.yaml`` that operate on field groups
> included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS`` will appear in the Rocoto XML, and only those (meta)tasks in ``verify_pre.yaml``
> that operate on obs types associated with one of the field groups in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS`` will appear in 
> the Rocoto XML.  Thus, for example, setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS`` list in the ``verification:`` section of ``config.yaml`` specifies the VX field
groups for which to run verification. In order to avoid unwanted computation, the Rocoto XML will include 
only those (meta)tasks that operate on field groups or obs types associated with field groups in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``. 
Thus, inclusion of a ``verify_*.yaml`` taskgroup file under the
``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:`` section of ``config.yaml`` does not mean that all the (meta)tasks in that
file will be included in the workflow. For example, setting:
```

Reviewer: Reworded somewhat for concision ;)

.. code-block:: console

   VX_FIELD_GROUPS: [ 'APCP', 'REFC', 'RETOP', 'SFC', 'UPA' ]

in ``config.yaml`` and including all three taskgroups ``verify_*.yaml`` in ``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:`` 
will add to the Rocoto XML the VX (meta)tasks for all valid field groups except those for accumulated 
snowfall (``'ASNOW'``) and its associated obs type (:term:`NOHRSC`).  In other words, all the (meta)tasks
in :numref:`Table %s <VXWorkflowTasksTable>`.  will be included in the Rocoto XML except for those
associated with the :term:`NOHRSC` obs type and the ``'ASNOW'`` field group.  Users might want to set
``VX_FIELD_GROUPS`` in this way for example because the forecast experiment they are verifying is for a
summer period for which ``ASNOW`` is not relevant.

Staging Observation Files
``````````````````````````````````
The taskgroup in ``verify_pre.yaml`` defines a set of workflow tasks named ``get_obs_*`` --- where the ``*``

> represents any one of the supported obs types :term:`CCPA`, :term:`NOHRSC`, :term:`MRMS`, and :term:`NDAS` ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
represents any one of the supported obs types: :term:`CCPA`, :term:`NOHRSC`, :term:`MRMS`, and :term:`NDAS` ---
```

> The taskgroup in ``verify_pre.yaml`` defines a set of workflow tasks named ``get_obs_*`` --- where the ``*``
> represents any one of the supported obs types :term:`CCPA`, :term:`NOHRSC`, :term:`MRMS`, and :term:`NDAS` ---
> that will first check for the existence of the obs files required for VX at the locations on disk specified
> by the variables ``*_OBS_DIR`` and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` in the ``verification:`` section of
> ``config.yaml``.  The ``*_OBS_DIR``  are the base directories in which the obs files are or should be
> staged, and the ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` are the file name templates (with METplus time strings
> used for templating; see example below).  The ``[1,3,...]`` in ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` refer
> to the second, fourth, etc elements of ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES`` and correspond to the various sets of files
> that the obs type contains.  (The first, third, etc elements, i.e. ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[0,2,...]``,
> indicate the VX field groups for which the respective sets of obs files are used to verify and should
> not be changed.) Note that ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` may include leading subdirectories and are
> relative to the obs type's ``*_OBS_DIR``.  Thus, the templates for the full paths to the obs files are
> given by
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    {*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The taskgroup in ``verify_pre.yaml`` defines a set of workflow tasks named ``get_obs_*``, where the ``*``
represents any one of the supported obs types: :term:`CCPA`, :term:`NOHRSC`, :term:`MRMS`, and :term:`NDAS`. These ``get_obs_*`` tasks 
will first check on disk for the existence of the obs files required for VX using the locations specified
by the variables ``*_OBS_DIR`` and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` in the ``verification:`` section of
``config.yaml``. The ``*_OBS_DIR``  are the base directories in which the obs files are or should be
staged, and the ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` are the file name templates (with METplus time strings
used for templating; see example below). Thus, the templates for the full paths to the obs files are
given by:

.. code-block:: console
   
   {*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}

The contents of the ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES`` list come in pairs, where the first element 
of each pair (with even-numbered indices ``[0,2,...]``) refers to the field group, 
while the second element (with odd-numbered indices ``[1,3,...]``) refers to the 
corresponding sets of files that the obs type contains. Note that ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES
[1,3,...]`` may include leading subdirectories and are
relative to the obs type's ``*_OBS_DIR``.
```

Reviewer: @gsketefian I'm a little confused by the `OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]` explanation. Are the numbers in the list zero-indexed? If so, it would be good to say that. It also seems like odd-numbered integers may refer to file types and even-numbered integers to field groups? If so, it might be good to state that more clearly. I'm happy to help reword, but I wanted to clarify my own understanding.

Author: @gspetro-NOAA This is a bit confusing because I wanted to use python dictionaries for the  ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES``, but it turns out that can't be done unless the ex-scripts for the various vx tasks are converted to python.  (I can explain why that is if you're interested, but it's beside the point.)  I didn't want to make the bash-to-python conversion of the ex-scripts in this PR, so I had to make ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES`` just python lists.  Python lists are 0-indexed, that's why the first element has index 0, etc.  As you pointed out, the contents of ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES`` come in pairs, where the first element of the pair (with index 0, 2, ...) is the field group(s) that the file type is used to verify, while the second element (with index 1, 3, ...) is the METplus template for that file type.

When the ex-scripts are converted to python, we can convert the ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES`` into dictionaries, where the first element of the each pair would be a key and the second element would be its value.  So instead of having this in ``config_defaults.yaml``:
```
  OBS_CCPA_FN_TEMPLATES: [ 'APCP',
                           '{%- set obs_avail_intvl_hrs = "%02d" % CCPA_OBS_AVAIL_INTVL_HRS %}
                            {{- "{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}/ccpa.t{valid?fmt=%H}z." ~ obs_avail_intvl_hrs ~ "h.hrap.conus.gb2" }}' ]
  OBS_NOHRSC_FN_TEMPLATES: [ 'ASNOW',
                             '{%- set obs_avail_intvl_hrs = "%d" % NOHRSC_OBS_AVAIL_INTVL_HRS %}
                              {{- "sfav2_CONUS_" ~ obs_avail_intvl_hrs ~ "h_{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d%H}_grid184.grb2" }}' ]
  OBS_MRMS_FN_TEMPLATES: [ 'REFC', '{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}/MergedReflectivityQCComposite_00.50_{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}-{valid?fmt=%H%M%S}.grib2',
                           'RETOP', '{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}/EchoTop_18_00.50_{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}-{valid?fmt=%H%M%S}.grib2' ]
  OBS_NDAS_FN_TEMPLATES: [ 'SFCandUPA', 'prepbufr.ndas.{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d%H}' ]
```
we would instead have
```
  OBS_CCPA_FN_TEMPLATES: { 'APCP':
                           '{%- set obs_avail_intvl_hrs = "%02d" % CCPA_OBS_AVAIL_INTVL_HRS %}
                            {{- "{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}/ccpa.t{valid?fmt=%H}z." ~ obs_avail_intvl_hrs ~ "h.hrap.conus.gb2" }}' }
  OBS_NOHRSC_FN_TEMPLATES: { 'ASNOW':
                             '{%- set obs_avail_intvl_hrs = "%d" % NOHRSC_OBS_AVAIL_INTVL_HRS %}
                              {{- "sfav2_CONUS_" ~ obs_avail_intvl_hrs ~ "h_{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d%H}_grid184.grb2" }}' }
  OBS_MRMS_FN_TEMPLATES: { 'REFC': '{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}/MergedReflectivityQCComposite_00.50_{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}-{valid?fmt=%H%M%S}.grib2',
                           'RETOP': '{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}/EchoTop_18_00.50_{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d}-{valid?fmt=%H%M%S}.grib2' }
  OBS_NDAS_FN_TEMPLATES: { 'SFCandUPA': 'prepbufr.ndas.{valid?fmt=%Y%m%d%H}' }
```
 Feel free to reword my explanation if you like, or I can do it if you prefer.  The only change I'd suggest in your current rewording is to change "in which the obs should be staged" to "in which the obs **are or** should be staged" since these variables can either point to already-staged files (the "are") or tell the `get_obs` tasks where to put the files (the "should be").  You don't have to word it exactly this way, but I do want to get that point across somehow.  Thanks!
 .

Reviewer: @gsketefian How's this rewrite?

Reviewer 2: @gsketefian -

It looks like this is the last unresolved conversation in the PR.  If @gspetro-NOAA's rewrite is okay, please commit the suggested change.  Once the Jenkins tests finish on Derecho, I will be able to merge this PR at that time.  Thank you very much!

> If the obs files exist at the locations specified by these variables, then the ``get_obs_*`` tasks will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the obs files exist at the locations specified by ``{*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}``, then the ``get_obs_*`` tasks will
```

> succeed and the workflow will move on to subsequent tasks.  If one or more obs files do not exist, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
succeed, and the workflow will move on to subsequent tasks.  If one or more obs files do not exist, the
```

``get_obs_*`` tasks will attempt to retrieve the required files from a data store such as NOAA HPSS and

> place them in the locations specified by ``*_OBS_DIR`` and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]``.  Assuming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
place them in the locations specified by ``{*_OBS_DIR}/{OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]}``.  Assuming
```

that attempt is successful, the workflow will move on to subsequent tasks.  Thus:

   * Users who have the obs files already available (staged) on their system only need to set ``*_OBS_DIR``
     and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` in ``config.yaml`` to match those staging locations and file names.  
   
   * Users who do not have the obs files available on their systems and do not have access to NOAA HPSS
     need to download :term:`CCPA`, :term:`NOHRSC`, :term:`MRMS`, and/or :term:`NDAS` files manually

>      from collections of publicly available data such as the ones listed `here <https://dtcenter.org/nwp-containers-online-tutorial/publicly-available-data-sets>`__. 

Reviewer: @gsketefian This link doesn't work anymore :-/

Author: @gspetro-NOAA I thought you had put in that link!  I did a lot of merging and conflict resolving because I was working with multiple branches on multiple computers, so I may have picked up this link from an old version of the app a few PRs back.  I'm happy to change this to whatever you think is best (removing it is fine by me).

Reviewer: Lol I originally had, but DTC eventually retired that page, so I removed the link when the link checker flagged it. I'll remove here, too, because I wasn't able to find a good substitute link. Feel free to recommend one tho if you know of any!

Reviewer: Ok, I reworded a bit. See if that works! I put back "are," although I think that "should be" covers both meanings and is more concise, but I don't feel the need to die arguing on that hill. ;)

     Then, as above, they must set ``*_OBS_DIR`` and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]`` to match those
     staging locations and file names.
   
   * Users who have access to a data store that hosts the necessary files (e.g. NOAA HPSS) do not need to
     manually stage the obs data because the ``get_obs_*`` tasks will retrieve the necessary obs and place
     them in the locations specified by ``*_OBS_DIR`` and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]``.  The default
     values of these variables are such that the files are placed under the experiment directory, but

>      users may change these if they want the retrieved files to be placed elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     them in the locations specified by ``*_OBS_DIR`` and ``OBS_*_FN_TEMPLATES[1,3,...]``.  By default,
     the files will be placed under the experiment directory, but
     users may change the values of these variables if they want the retrieved files to be placed elsewhere.
```

     - Set of tasks that generate NetCDF files containing observed ASNOW for the accumulation intervals
       specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``.  Files for accumulation intervals larger than the one
       provided in the obs are obtained by adding ASNOW values over multiple obs accumulation intervals.
       For example, if the obs contain 6-hour accumulations and 24-hr accumulation is specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``,
       then groups of 4 successive 6-hour ASNOW values in the obs are added to obtain the 24-hour values.
       In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_PcpCombine_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_obs_NOHRSC``,
       where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``06``, ``24``, etc.) for which
       the task is being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'ASNOW'`` is included in
       ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_check_post_output_all_mems` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that ensure that the post-processed forecast files required for verification exist in
       the locations specified by ``VX_FCST_INPUT_BASEDIR``, ``FCST_SUBDIR_TEMPLATE``, and ``FCST_FN_TEMPLATE``.

>        In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``check_post_output_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{mem_indx}``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``check_post_output_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{mem_indx}``
```

       is the index of the ensemble forecast member.  This takes on the values ``001``, ``002``, ... for an
       ensemble of forecasts or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast.  This metatask is included
       in the workflow if at least one other verification task or metatask is included.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_PcpCombine_APCP_all_accums_all_mems` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that generate NetCDF files containing forecast APCP for the accumulation intervals
       specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``.  Files for accumulation intervals larger than the one
       provided in the forecasts are obtained by adding APCP values over multiple forecast accumulation

>        intervals, e.g. if the forecasts contain 1-hour accumulations and 3-hr accumulation is specified
>        in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``, then groups of 3 successive 1-hour APCP values in the forecasts are
>        added to obtain the 3-hour values.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named
>        ``run_MET_PcpCombine_APCP{accum_intvl}h_fcst_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` and
>        ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc) and
>        the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for
>        which the task is being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'APCP'`` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intervals. For example, if the forecasts contain 1-hour accumulations, but 3-hr accumulation is specified
in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``, then groups of 3 successive 1-hour APCP values in the forecasts are
added to obtain the 3-hour values. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named
``run_MET_PcpCombine_APCP{accum_intvl}h_fcst_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` and
``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g., ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc.) and
the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for
which the task is being run. This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'APCP'`` is
```

>        intervals, e.g. if the forecasts contain 1-hour accumulations and 3-hr accumulation is specified
>        in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``, then groups of 3 successive 1-hour APCP values in the forecasts are
>        added to obtain the 3-hour values.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named
>        ``run_MET_PcpCombine_APCP{accum_intvl}h_fcst_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` and
>        ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc) and
>        the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for
>        which the task is being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'APCP'`` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       intervals. For example, if the forecasts contain 1-hour accumulations, but 3-hr accumulation is specified
       in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``, then groups of 3 successive 1-hour APCP values in the forecasts are
       added to obtain the 3-hour values. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named
       ``run_MET_PcpCombine_APCP{accum_intvl}h_fcst_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` and
       ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g., ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc.) and
       the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for
       which the task is being run. This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'APCP'`` is
```

       included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_PcpCombine_ASNOW_all_accums_all_mems` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that generate NetCDF files containing forecast ASNOW for the accumulation intervals
       specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``.  Files for accumulation intervals larger than the one
       provided in the forecasts are obtained by adding ASNOW values over multiple forecast accumulation

>        intervals, e.g. if the forecasts contain 1-hour accumulations and 6-hr accumulation is specified
>        in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``, then groups of 6 successive 1-hour ASNOW values in the forecasts are
>        added to obtain 6-hour values.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named
>        ``run_MET_PcpCombine_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_fcst_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` and
>        ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``06``, ``24``, etc) and the ensemble

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       intervals. For example, if the forecasts contain 1-hour accumulations, but 6-hr accumulation is specified
       in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``, then groups of 6 successive 1-hour ASNOW values in the forecasts are
       added to obtain 6-hour values. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named
       ``run_MET_PcpCombine_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_fcst_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` and
       ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g., ``06``, ``24``, etc.) and the ensemble
```

       forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for which the task is
       being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'ASNOW'`` is included in
       ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GridStat_APCP_all_accums_all_mems` (``verify_det.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid verification of accumulated precipitation (represented by the

>        verification field group ``APCP``) for the intervals specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In rocoto,
>        the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h_mem{mem_indx}``,
>        where ``{accum_intvl}`` and ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``01``,
>        ``03``, ``06``, etc) and the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       verification field group ``APCP``) for the intervals specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In Rocoto,
       the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h_mem{mem_indx}``,
       where ``{accum_intvl}`` and ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``01``,
       ``03``, ``06``, etc.) and the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic
```

       forecast) for which the task is being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'APCP'``
       is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GridStat_ASNOW_all_accums_all_mems` (``verify_det.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid verification of accumulated snowfall (represented by the verification
       field group ``ASNOW``) for the intervals specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In rocoto, the tasks under
       this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}``

>        and ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``06``, ``24``, etc) and the ensemble

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       field group ``ASNOW``) for the intervals specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In Rocoto, the tasks under
       this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_mem{mem_indx}``, where ``{accum_intvl}``
       and ``{mem_indx}`` are the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``06``, ``24``, etc.) and the ensemble
```

       forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for which the task is being
       run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'ASNOW'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GridStat_REFC_RETOP_all_mems` (``verify_det.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid verification of :term:`composite reflectivity` (represented by
       the verification field group ``REFC``) and :term:`echo top` (represented by the verification field

>        group ``RETOP``).  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_{field_group}_mem{mem_indx}``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       group ``RETOP``). In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_{field_group}_mem{mem_indx}``,
```

       where ``field_group`` and ``{mem_indx}`` are the field group (in this case either ``REFC`` or ``RETOP``)
       and the ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for which
       the task is being run.  The tasks for ``REFC`` are included in the workflow only if ``'REFC'`` is
       included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``, and the ones for ``RETOP`` are included only if ``'RETOP'`` is included
       in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_PointStat_SFC_UPA_all_mems` (``verify_det.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-point verification of surface fields (represented by the verification field

>        group ``SFC``) and upper-air fields (represented by the verification field group ``UPA``).  In rocoto,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       group ``SFC``) and upper-air fields (represented by the verification field group ``UPA``). In Rocoto,
```

       the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_PointStat_vx_{field_group}_mem{mem_indx}``, where
       ``field_group`` and ``{mem_indx}`` are the field group (in this case either ``SFC`` or ``UPA``) and the
       ensemble forecast member index (or just ``000`` for a single deterministic forecast) for which the task
       is being run.  The tasks for the surface fields are included in the workflow only if ``'SFC'`` is included
       in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``, and the ones for the upper-air fields are included only if ``'UPA'`` is included
       in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GenEnsProd_EnsembleStat_APCP_all_accums` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run :term:`MET`'s ``GenEnsProd`` and ``EnsembleStat`` tools on APCP for the intervals

>        specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run ``GenEnsProd``
>        are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h``, and the ones that run `EnsembleStat`` are
>        named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation
>        interval (in hours, e.g. ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc) for which the tasks are being run.  This metatask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run ``GenEnsProd``
       are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h``, and the ones that run ``EnsembleStat`` are
       named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation
       interval in hours (e.g., ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc.) for which the tasks are being run. This metatask
```

       is included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'APCP'``
       is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GenEnsProd_EnsembleStat_ASNOW_all_accums` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run :term:`MET`'s ``GenEnsProd`` and ``EnsembleStat`` tools on ASNOW for the intervals
       specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run ``GenEnsProd``
       are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h`` and the ones that run `EnsembleStat`` are
       named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation

>        interval (in hours, e.g. ``06``, ``24``, etc) for which the tasks are being run.  This metatask will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run ``GenEnsProd``
       are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h`` and the ones that run ``EnsembleStat`` are
       named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h``, where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation
       interval in hours (e.g., ``06``, ``24``, etc.) for which the tasks are being run. This metatask will be
```

       included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'ASNOW'``
       is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GenEnsProd_EnsembleStat_REFC_RETOP` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run :term:`MET`'s ``GenEnsProd`` and ``EnsembleStat`` tools on REFC (:term:`composite

>        reflectivity`) and RETOP (:term:`echo top`).  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run
>        ``GenEnsProd`` are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_{field_group}``, and the ones that run `EnsembleStat``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       reflectivity`) and RETOP (:term:`echo top`). In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run
       ``GenEnsProd`` are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_{field_group}``, and the ones that run ``EnsembleStat``
```

       are named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_{field_group}``, where ``{field_group}`` is the field group (in
       this case either ``REFC`` or ``RETOP``) for which the tasks are being run.  The tasks for ``REFC`` are
       included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'REFC'``
       is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``, and the ones for ``RETOP`` are included only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is
       set to ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'RETOP'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GenEnsProd_EnsembleStat_SFC_UPA` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run :term:`MET`'s ``GenEnsProd`` and ``EnsembleStat`` tools on surface fields (represented
       by the verification field group ``SFC``) and upper-air fields (represented by the verification field group

>        ``UPA``).  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run ``GenEnsProd`` are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_{field_group}``,
>        and the ones that run `EnsembleStat`` are named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_{field_group}``, where ``{field_group}``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ``UPA``). In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask that run ``GenEnsProd`` are named ``run_MET_GenEnsProd_vx_{field_group}``,
       and the ones that run ``EnsembleStat`` are named ``run_MET_EnsembleStat_vx_{field_group}``, where ``{field_group}``
```

       is the field group (in this case either ``SFC`` or ``UPA``) for which the tasks are being run.  The tasks for
       ``SFC`` are included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'SFC'``
       is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``, and the ones for ``UPA`` are included only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to
       ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'UPA'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GridStat_APCP_all_accums_ensmeanprob` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid verification of the ensemble mean of APCP and grid-to-grid probabilistic

>        verification of the ensemble of APCP forecasts as a whole.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask for
>        ensemble mean verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h_ensmean``, and the ones for
>        ensemble probabilistic verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h_ensprob``, where
>        ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc) for which the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       verification of the ensemble of APCP forecasts as a whole. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask for
       ensemble mean verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h_ensmean``, and the ones for
       ensemble probabilistic verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_APCP{accum_intvl}h_ensprob``, where
       ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc.) for which the
```

       tasks are being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True``
       in ``config.yaml`` and ``'APCP'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GridStat_ASNOW_all_accums_ensmeanprob` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid verification of the ensemble mean of ASNOW and grid-to-grid probabilistic

>        verification of the ensemble of ASNOW forecasts as a whole.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask for
>        ensemble mean verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_ensmean``, and the ones for
>        ensemble probabilistic verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_ensprob``, where
>        ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval (in hours, e.g. ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc) for which the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       verification of the ensemble of ASNOW forecasts as a whole. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask for
       ensemble mean verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_ensmean``, and the ones for
       ensemble probabilistic verification are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_ensprob``, where
       ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc.) for which the
```

       tasks are being run.  These tasks will be included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True``
       in ``config.yaml`` and ``'ASNOW'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_GridStat_REFC_RETOP_ensprob` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid probabilistic verification of the ensemble of :term:`composite reflectivity`
       (represented by the verification field group ``REFC``) and :term:`echo top` (represented by the field group
       ``RETOP``).  (Note that there is no grid-to-grid verification of the ensemble mean of these quantities.)

>        In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_{field_group}_ensprob``, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_GridStat_vx_{field_group}_ensprob``, where
```

       ``{field_group}`` is the field group (in this case either ``REFC`` or ``RETOP``) for which the task is
       being run.  The task for ``REFC`` is included in the workflow only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True``
       in ``config.yaml`` and ``'REFC'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``, and the one for ``RETOP`` is included 
       only if ``DO_ENSEMBLE`` is set to ``True`` in ``config.yaml`` and ``'RETOP'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_PointStat_SFC_UPA_ensmeanprob` (``verify_ens.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that run grid-to-grid verification of the ensemble mean of surface fields (represented by the
       verification field group ``SFC``) and upper-air fields (represented by the verification field group ``UPA``)
       as well as grid-to-grid probabilistic verification of the ensemble of the surface and upper-air field

>        forecasts as a whole.  In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask for ensemble mean verification are named

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       forecasts as a whole. In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask for ensemble mean verification are named
```

     - Task Description
   * - plot_allvars
     - Run the plotting task and, optionally, the difference plotting task

The METplus verification tasks and metatasks that are included by default in ``verify_*.yaml`` are described
in :numref:`Table %s <VXWorkflowTasksTable>`. The ``taskgroup`` entry after the name of each (meta)task indicates
the taskgroup file that must be included in the user's ``config.yaml`` file under ``rocoto: tasks: taskgroups:``
in order for that (meta)task to be considered for inclusion in the workflow (see :numref:`Section %s <DefineWorkflow>`
for details). As described in  :numref:`Section %s <defining_metatasks>`, metatasks define a set of tasks in the
workflow based on multiple values of one or more parameters such as the ensemble member index, the accumulation

> interval (for cumulative fields such as accumulated precipitation), and the name of the verificaiton field group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interval (for cumulative fields such as accumulated precipitation), and the name of the verification field group
```

       and ``OBS_NOHRSC_FN_TEMPLATES``.  If any files do not exist, it attempts to retrieve all the files
       from a data store (e.g. NOAA :term:`HPSS`) and place them in those locations.  This task is included
       in the workflow only if ``'ASNOW'`` is included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`task_get_obs_mrms` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Checks for existence of staged :term:`MRMS` obs files at locations specified by ``MRMS_OBS_DIR``
       and ``OBS_MRMS_FN_TEMPLATES``.  If any files do not exist, it attempts to retrieve all the files
       from a data store (e.g. NOAA :term:`HPSS`) and place them in those locations.  This task is included
       in the workflow only if ``'REFC'`` and/or ``'RETOP'`` are included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`task_get_obs_ndas` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Checks for existence of staged :term:`NDAS` obs files at locations specified by ``NDAS_OBS_DIR``
       and ``OBS_NDAS_FN_TEMPLATES``.  If any files do not exist, it attempts to retrieve all the files
       from a data store (e.g. NOAA :term:`HPSS`) and place them in those locations.  This task is included

>        in the workflow only if `'SFC'`` and/or ``'UPA'`` are included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       in the workflow only if ``'SFC'`` and/or ``'UPA'`` are included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.
```

   * - :bolditalic:`task_run_MET_Pb2nc_obs_NDAS` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Converts NDAS obs prepbufr files to NetCDF format.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_PcpCombine_APCP_all_accums_obs_CCPA` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that generate NetCDF files containing observed APCP for the accumulation intervals
       specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``.  Files for accumulation intervals larger than the one

>        provided in the obs are obtained by adding APCP values over multiple obs accumulation intervals,
>        e.g. if the obs contain 1-hour accumulations and 3-hr accumulation is specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       provided in the obs are obtained by adding APCP values over multiple obs accumulation intervals.
       For example, if the obs contain 1-hour accumulations and 3-hr accumulation is specified in ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS``,
```

       then groups of 3 successive 1-hour APCP values in the obs are added to obtain the 3-hour values.

>        In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_PcpCombine_APCP{accum_intvl}h_obs_CCPA``,
>        where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g. ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_PcpCombine_APCP{accum_intvl}h_obs_CCPA``,
       where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``01``, ``03``, ``06``, etc.)
```

       for which the task is being run.  This metatask is included in the workflow only if ``'APCP'`` is
       included in ``VX_FIELD_GROUPS``.

   * - :bolditalic:`metatask_PcpCombine_ASNOW_all_accums_obs_NOHRSC` (``verify_pre.yaml``)
     - Set of tasks that generate NetCDF files containing observed ASNOW for the accumulation intervals
       specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``.  Files for accumulation intervals larger than the one

>        provided in the obs are obtained by adding ASNOW values over multiple obs accumulation intervals,
>        e.g. if the obs contain 6-hour accumulations and 24-hr accumulation is specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``,
>        then groups of 4 successive 6-hour ASNOW values in the obs are added to obtain the 24-hour values.
>        In rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_PcpCombine_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_obs_NOHRSC``,
>        where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g. ``06``, ``24``, etc) for which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       provided in the obs are obtained by adding ASNOW values over multiple obs accumulation intervals.
       For example, if the obs contain 6-hour accumulations and 24-hr accumulation is specified in ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``,
       then groups of 4 successive 6-hour ASNOW values in the obs are added to obtain the 24-hour values.
       In Rocoto, the tasks under this metatask are named ``run_MET_PcpCombine_ASNOW{accum_intvl}h_obs_NOHRSC``,
       where ``{accum_intvl}`` is the accumulation interval in hours (e.g., ``06``, ``24``, etc.) for which
```
